NETID:  rrg67

Describe the contents of an IP packet and for each field describe the purpose it serves.

    An IP packet contains the following fields: version, IHL, TOS, total length,
    identification, flags, fragment offset, TTL, protocol, header checksum, 
    source address, destination address, options, and data. The version field describes
    the IP version being used so that it may be interpreted correctly. The IHL, or 
    Internet Header Length, field tells you the size of the header. It also coincides 
    with the offset to the data. The TOS, or the Type of Service, field gives a priority 
    to each packet and provides a way to request treatments such as high throughput, high 
    reliability, low latency, or other options. The total length field gives the size of 
    the entire packet with the minimum size being 20 bytes and the maximum size being 65,535 
    bytes. The identification field is for identifying a fragment within a group in a single 
    IP stream. The flag field controls or identifies packets using three bits (0: reserved, 1:
    don't fragment, 2: more fragments). The fragment offset field gives the offset of a fragment 
    compated to the beginning of the original IP data. The TTL, or Time to Live, field limits an 
    IP packet's lifetime. The protocol field gives the protocol for the data part of the packet. 
    The header checksum field checks for errors in the header, comparing it to the checksum field 
    so that if they do not match the packet is discarded because there is an error in the packet. 
    The source address field is the address of the packet sender. The destination address field is
    the address of the packet's destination. The option field gives options for the packet which 
    could be related to security or copies of the packet. The final field, data, conains the 
    information of the packet that was being sent from one destination to another. 


Describe the general operation of the BGP protocol.

    BGP, or Border Gateway Protocol, is a standardized protocol used in exchange routing and 
    reachability information between autonomous systems (ASs) on the Interet. BGP establishes 
    neighbors, or peers, to create a TCP, or transport protocol connection, session by configuring 
    routers. Topological links are established, providing physical connections through which data 
    can flow between ASs. Links may be made between many ASs using neighbors to find the system it 
    wants to talk to. 

Describe why the ethernet protocol necessitates a minimum packet size.

    Ethernet protocol necessitates a minimum packet size so that hosts may check a collision. 
    The minimum packet size is 64 bytes which allows all hosts to do this. This is so that 
    when two machines transmit a packet at the same time, they will be able to detect a colision 
    as 64 bytes is the maximum distance between routers, so two packets will collide and each 
    machine will be able to tell immediately and stop their transmission. 

Describe how TCP reacts to congestion in the network.  Assume that
congestion is brought on by BGP reconfiguring the path such that TCP
packets now go through a bottleneck link of capacity B packets/second.
Describe in detail what TCP will do when faced with this bottleneck.

    TCP reacts to congestion by backing off when congestion nears the capacity. 
    TCP increases the window size until a packet is dropped, in which case it 
    cuts the window size in half. TCP will slowly build up to the maximum bandwidth, 
    hover around the max, but never actually achieve the maximum because it shares 
    bandwidth with all other TCP connections. The amount of bandwidth used will 
    linearly increase until there is congestion and it exponentially backs off. 

Describe TCP's behavior when it is first getting started delivering data
over a high latency, high-bandwidth channel such as a satellite link. Be
sure to explain how TCP manages its window size during the initial
connection setup.

    TCP will take a long time to build up a larger window size, so TCP can spend a 
    lot of time with small windows never getting larger window sizes becuase transactions 
    are not long enough. In order to fix this problem, we can have TCP quickly reach 
    a large window size by doubling the window size until the pfirst packet is dropped. 

On an ethernet segment, the ARP protocol is used to locate the ethernet
address of a host whose IP address is known. On the Internet, DNS is
used to locate the IP address of a host whose name is known. ARP and
DNS are drastically different -- the former uses a broadcast mechanism
while the latter implements a scalable, distributed database. Explain
why DNS was designed the way it was, and not, for instance, based on
a simple broadcast.

    DNS was designed the way it was because it is simple to look up IP 
    addresses based on the name of the hostname. It is also easy to change 
    without affecting the user who uses the same URL despite the possible 
    change in IP address. DNS is also able to distribute the the assigning 
    and mapping of names to IP addresses by having name serers for each domain. 

Describe the two means by which a DNS name, such as www.cnn.com, is
resolved.

    A DNS name can be resolved by servers accepting a request from a 
    program to convert a domain name to an IP address or accept a 
    request from another name server to convert the domain name. 

What is a DNS local resolver?

    A DNS local resolver is the client side of the DNS. It creates a 
    query and sends it to the server or servers listed on in the TCP/IP 
    settings. It is a standard piece of software that the OS provides 
    and looks up IP addresses.

What purpose does the ACK # serve in TCP?

    The ACK # is a 32 bit number in a sequence that keeps track of how 
    much information has been sent in order to tell the sender that the 
    data has been sent successfully. 

What purpose does the destination port number serve in UDP?

    The destination port in UDP serves the purpose of telling the UDP 
    packet where to go because UDP does not directly connect to the 
    destination, but instead it sends the packed out and uses the devices 
    in between the source and destination devices. 

Why does UDP include a checksum? Wouldn't the end-to-end argument
require that all checksums be performed at the application level, and
hence argue that UDP and TCP elide such additional checksums in the
network stack?

    UDP includes a checksum to check for errors in the header and data. 
    The end-to-end argument would recquire all checksums be preformed 
    at an application level, except you cannot assume there is error 
    checking for every machine or device between the source and destination. 
    Therefore, haveing a checksum allows the destination to check for errors 
    before attempting to use the packet. 

Imagine that a mail server on host A has just received a TCP/IP SYN
packet destined for it. Describe everything that happens to this packet
from the point of its reception by the network interface card to the
point of its delivery to the mail server.

    Host A has just recieved a SYN packet sent to it by Host B. HOst A 
    then sends a SYN-ACK packet back to Host B to let Host B know that 
    it recieved the packet. Host B then sends and ACK packet back to 
    Host A in order to confirm the connection between the hosts. Host A 
    then does whatever it needs to do with the packet.  

In IPv6, why do routers not fragment packets. What does IPv6
do instead of fragmentation?

    In IPv6, routers do not fragment packets because fragmentation can cause 
    security problems, overlapping fragments take time to put back together 
    once recieved, and you must wait for all of the packets. IPv6 does path 
    MTU discovery, end-to-end fragmentation, or send packets that are no larger 
    than the default size. 

What is the difference between a web proxy and a vpn? When would it be advantageous 
to use a proxy instead of a vpn?

    A web proxy forwards HTTP requests and allows you to change your IP address when 
    using the internet. A vpn, or virtual private network, extends a private network 
    across a public network and can encrypt your network. It would be more advantageous 
    to use a proxy instead of vpn whne you need to quickly and anonymously access websites 
    as well as if you are trying to save money. 
